---
layout: page
title: Base Rules
permalink: /base-rules/
---


## Characters
There are three Characteristics:
* **Vigor**: strength, endurance.
  - A Vigor of 15+ gives you +1 ATK.
* **Agility**: speed, balance, stealth.
  - An Agility of 15+ gives a +1 to your Capture save.
* **Finesse**: craftiness and survival.
  - A Finesse of 15+ gives a +1 to your Death save.

They are generated by rolling 3d6.  

Choose two Skills.

| Vigor | Agility | Finesse |
|:-----:|:-------:|:-------:|
|Strength (bash/lift) | Jumping/running| Thievery (traps, locks, pickpocket)|
|Endurance (forced march, swimming)| Balance (rope, horse riding, dance)| Bushcraft |
|Climbing | Stealth| Healing (first aid, cures)|

**Knowledge**. Write 1 question on your character sheet. You can always know the answer to it if you could reasonably have intuited or learned it. 

There are three Saves:
* **Capture**: 6-Dead Weight. Used against area effects, paralysis, sleep, petrification, blindness, being tied up (trick the one who binds you into believing he has the right constraint and untie yourself later), telekinesis, metamorphosis, some traps, wands, rays. 
* **Death**: 5. Used against deadly falls, disease, poison, and when facing death at 0 HP.
* **Witchcraft**: 2 + ritual warding (if any, and only temporary). Used against spells who bypass the other saves, curses and mind-altering effects. Base ward is 0. Make a sacrifice and smear blood from it on yourself to gain +1 to +4 warding according to size and rarity of the sacrifice, until the next sunrise.

There are three Attributes:
* **Hit Points (HP)**: how many damage you can take before you die or lose bits of yourself.
* **Attacks (ATK)**: how many attacks you have per round.
* **Mana**: the number of spells you can cast and their power.

A character starts at Level 1 with 2 HP, 1 attack, and 0 Mana. 

There are six classes. They have no effect on choices you can make with levels, this is only a starting point for your character. Choose one:
* **Warrior**. Each time you should suffer 1 damage, you have 1-in-6 chance to cancel the damage. 
* **Explorer**. In your inventory, you can store two items for the same load count as one, but only it the two items are the same. This doesn't work with armor. Within reasonnable limits, all treasures are "the same". 
* **Silent**. While stealthy, you don't risk noise -even when trying to kill someone, walking on dry leaves or similar activity. When you roll for surprise alone, the other side has 4-in-6 chance to be surprised instead of the normal 2-in-6.
* **Malefica(r)**. You start the game with 1 HP instead of 2, but you also have 1 Mana, three random spells, and +1 spell slot (you can prepare as many spells as Mana +1). 
* **Berserker**. Invoke holy furor to gain +1 ATK per round until end of fight. While in this state, you auto-succeed Death saves (but you still roll for Wounds) and can keep fighting even if you are dying. You can’t do something else than trying to kill all enemies until it’s done. Save against Capture after 10 minutes or lose this ability for the day.
* **Deadeye**. There is no limitation to the number of ranged attacks you can make per round, you use your full attacks. 

---

### Progress
* For each silver worth of treasure you bring back home, gain 1 xp. Spend 100*your level xp to advance to the next level.
* Make a public, legendary boast. If you fulfill it, you advance to the next level without spending xp. If you fail, you are released from it and can declare another. If you shirk your boast, you can never boast again. You cannot have more than one boast pending at a time.

Each time you gain a level, choose one:
* +1 HP
* +1 ATK
* +1 Mana

To improve your Characteristics, see Downtime.

---

## Resolution
Always round down unless specified otherwise.

### X-in-Y chance
Roll a dY, if you roll X or lower it happens. 
If the Referee is unsure and has no random table for it, they decide how many chances out of 6 there are that the thing will happen.  2-in-6 is a good chance for most things. 

## Tests
If something is hard and discussion does not offer an obvious resolution, you may test a suitable Characteristic with 1d12. You succed on 6 or less:
* -1 if your Charac is 8 or less (5-in-12 success chance)
* +1 if your Charac is 13 or more (7-in-12 success chance)
* +2 if your Charac is 16 or more (8-in-12 success chance)
* +1 if you have the relevant skill.
* -Dead Weight if carried load is a negative factor.

Easy or extreme actions pass or fail automatically. Advantages either change the stakes in your favor or grant you automatic success.  

If something is Very Hard, you have -2 chances of success. 

### Stakes
The players are free to discuss and plan any course of action, with the Referee clarifying feasibility and likely consequences of failure. The stakes determine the difficulty, whether or not you can complete the action on a failure, the severity of the cost and what you can gain out of a success.
### Group action
When everyone joins the same action and it needs a test, everyone rolls. If there is more failures than successes, everyone fails. Otherwise, everyone succeeds. All participants are subject to the stakes.
### Opposed action
Succeed on 6-in-12 if you are roughly equals. Slide up or down otherwise. 
### Secret & just-in-time roll
If the knowledge of the outcome impacts the situation, the Referee might secretly roll for a character, or delay the roll until the last moment. 
## Saves
Against specific threats, the Referee might call for you to make a save.  
Each save rates the chances of success on 1d12 to avoid the threat.  
There are two types of threat.
* Those that inflict damage: Roll once for each damage, each success prevents one damage.
* Those that have a binary effect, suffered entirely on a failure or not at all on a success: Roll once.

When in doubt between two saves, use the one most advantageous to the character.

---
